Rails Testing
=============

This is an example application utilizing rails built it unit testing and functional testing.

This was built using Ruby 2.0.0, Rails 4.0.1, and Postgres 9.1.

The purpose of this application is to demonstrate a few different features of Rails and my ability to utilize them. This specific application simply stores, and creates menu items for the coffee shop that I'm currently working in.

* Unit testing
* Funcational testing
* Utilizing Rails models to query data
* Displaying data properly in a view, styled using SASS
* Ability to use the rails command line to create the app, models, controllers, etc
* Ability to use Postgresql 

Unit Testing
------------

The test database has been populated using fixtures. There are all sorts of unit tests used to ensure proper functioning of the models. These unit tests are beneficial because it allows us to programatically test every possible point of failure. Ideally unit tests will be created for every single thing that could possibly break in the application.

For this app, I am only using an "item" model and an "option" model (items have a one-to-many relationship with options). Unit tests have been created for both models and are mainly being used to ensure the objects are properly validated when being saved.

Functional Testing
------------------

Functional testing tests single actions of a controller such as loading a page or saving a new object. For this app, the main controller is the menu controller, but using scaffolding (for convenience) I've generated the items and options controllers as well. This allows for quick CRUD functionality. 

For this app specifically, upon creating a new item you will be immediately taken to create an option for that item. You may also add options from the edit item action as well. 

There are functional tests to ensure that pages load properly with no errors, both items and options are able to be created and updated properly, and all routing and redirections are correct. 


Rails Models
------------

Rails active record class is incredibly powerful, and besides functionality generated by scaffolding the items resource, there is a simple demonstration of gathering all menu items in the menu controller and passing them to the view.

Views
-----

There is only one important view in this rails application and it is used to display the menu - which is a collection of items. The view simply loops through the menu items to display each one, and it is styled using SASS - a css preprocessor.

There are of course other views that were generated by scaffolding, but they are not the focus of the app.

Rails Command Line
------------------

The Rails command line is powerful and saves a great deal of time by automating commonly repeated tasks. For this application, I took full advantage of rails ability to create the app; generate models, views and controllers; conduct unit and functional testing; and handle database migrations.

Postgresql
----------

I'm using Postgresql for this app since its what I already have installed on my machine and have been using for personal rails projects. Since Rails handles a lot of the databse interaction, I simply had to create a user and a databse and grant the appropriate privileges. 
